feat: Editorial review: Add content for overlay and discrete animation features (#29943)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/content-visibility/index.md

- `auto`
  - : The element turns on layout containment, style containment, and paint containment. If the element is not [relevant to the user](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_containment#relevant_to_the_user), it also skips its contents. Unlike hidden, the skipped contents must still be available as normal to user-agent features such as find-in-page, tab order navigation, etc., and must be focusable and selectable as normal.

> ## Animating and transitioning content-visibility

Author: I've gone for an easier solution here. I've just changed the existing title to an H3, and added a "Description" H2 above it. This way, the structure is correct, and any future description sections can be added in the right place beneath it.

I'd rather not start breaking up the content that's there, as I think it works together.

[Supporting browsers](#browser_compatibility) animate/transition `content-visibility` with a variation on the [discrete animation type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animated_properties#discrete).

> Discrete animation generally means that the property will flip between two values `50%` through the animation. In the case of `content-visibility`, however, the browser will flip between the two values to show the animated content for `100%` of the animation duration. So, for example:

Author: changed, here, and in all the other articles.

> [Supporting browsers](#browser_compatibility) animate/transition `content-visibility` with a variation on the [discrete animation type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animated_properties#discrete). Discrete animation generally means that the property will flip between two values `50%` through animating between the two.
> 
> In the case of `content-visibility` however, the browser will flip between the two values so that the animated content is shown for `100%` of the animation duration. So for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Supporting browsers](#browser_compatibility) animate/transition `content-visibility` with a variation on the [discrete animation type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animated_properties#discrete). 

Discrete animation generally means that the property will flip between two values, `50%` through the animation. In the case of `content-visibility`, however, the browser will flip between the two values to show the animated content for `100%` of the animation duration. So, for example:
```

Author: Sounds good. Updated.

> In the case of `content-visibility` however, the browser will flip between the two values so that the animated content is shown for `100%` of the animation duration. So for example:

Author: I agree with removing the history stuff, so I've made that change. However, your other changes make it sound like `transition-behavior: allow-discrete` is required for animations and transitions, or at least don't make it clear that it is only required for transitions. so I've not made the other changes.

- When animating between `content-visibility` `hidden` and `visible`, the value will flip to `visible` at `0%` of the animation duration so it is visible throughout.

> - When animating between `content-visibility` `visible` and `hidden`, the value will flip to `hidden` at `100%` of the animation duration so it is visible throughout.

Author: I've changed the form of this sentence here, and everywhere else it appears.

> This behavior is useful for creating entry/exit animations where you want to for example remove some content from the UI immediately with `content-visibility: hidden`, but have it animate (for example fade out) rather than disappearing immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This behavior is useful for creating entry/exit animations where you want to, for example, remove some content from the UI with `content-visibility: hidden`, but you want a smooth transition, such as a fade-out, rather than it disappearing immediately.
```
Does the element get removed from the DOM at the start or end of the transition? My remove of "remove some content from the UI immediately" has to do with my assumption that if you have a 40s delay on your transition, it's going to still be in the dom?

Author: This is a good question; I'm not sure. When testing it in the browser, the dev tools still show the content in the UI even after the animation has finished.

I think your text suggestion sounds good either way, so I've made it.

> When animating `content-visibility` with [CSS animations](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_animations), you need to provide the starting `content-visibility` value in an explicit starting keyframe (for example using `0%` or `from`). For a full example, see the [content-visibility animation example](#content-visibility_animation_example) below.

Reviewer: we should test to see if this is like display; as long as it's visible at any keyframe (say 72% to 88%), is it visible 100% of the time?

Author: I'd say it is, yes. In the animation example I added to this page, you can see that the content is visible on the page throughout both the entry and exit animations. If it wasn't, the content wouldn't take up the space on the page.

When animating `content-visibility` with [CSS transitions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_transitions), two additional features are needed:

> - [`@starting-style`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@starting-style) is used to provide a set of starting values for properties set on an element that you want to transition from when the element receives its first style update. This is needed to avoid unexpected behavior. By default, CSS transitions are not triggered on elements' first style updates, or when the `content-visibility` value changes from `hidden` to `visible`.

Reviewer: same edit as above. The first sentence is hard to grok.

Author: I'm not 100% sure which edit you mean, or which sentence you mean is hard to grok. I'm guessing you mean the first sentence of the first bullet, shown above, and I've attempted to improve it like so:

> [`@starting-style`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@starting-style) provides a set of starting values for properties that you want to transition from when the animated element is first shown.

Is that better?

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Using hidden to manually manage visibility') }}

### content-visibility animation example

In this example, we have a {{htmlelement("div")}} element, the content of which can be toggled between shown and hidden by clicking or pressing any key.

#### HTML

```html
<p>
  Click anywhere on the screen or press any key to toggle the
  <code>&lt;div&gt;</code> content between hidden and showing.
</p>

<div>
  This is a <code>&lt;div&gt;</code> element that animates between
  <code>content-visibility: hidden;</code>and
  <code>content-visibility: visible;</code>. We've also animated the text color

>   to provide a smooth animation effect.

Reviewer: provide or demonstrate?

Author: I've changed it to "create" ;-)

</div>
```

#### CSS

> In the CSS we initially set `content-visibility: hidden;` on the `<div>` to hide its content. We then set up `@keyframe` animations and attach them to classes to show and hide the `<div>`, animating `content-visibility` but also [`color`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color) so that you get a smooth animation effect as the content is shown/hidden.

Author: I've just changed "but also" to "and"

```css
div {
  font-size: 1.6rem;
  padding: 20px;
  border: 3px solid red;
  border-radius: 20px;
  width: 480px;

  content-visibility: hidden;
}

/* Animation classes */

.show {
  animation: show 0.7s ease-in forwards;
}

.hide {

>   animation: hide 0.7s ease-out forwards;

Reviewer: if we did ` animation: show 0.7s reverse ease-out ` would this work? should we demonstrate that it's not always 0% to 100%, but in either direction?

Author: I've just tried it, and no, it doesn't work. The show animation happens the first time, but then after that the content just appears and disappears with no animation.

}

/* Animation keyframes */

@keyframes show {
  0% {
    content-visibility: hidden;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0);
  }

  100% {
    content-visibility: visible;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  }
}

@keyframes hide {
  0% {
    content-visibility: visible;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  }

  100% {
    content-visibility: hidden;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0);
  }
}
```

#### JavaScript

> Finally, we use some JavaScript to apply the `.show` and `.hide` classes to the `<div>` as appropriate to apply the animations as it is toggled between shown and hidden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we use JavaScript to apply the `.show` and `.hide` classes to the `<div>` as appropriate to apply the animations as it is toggled between shown and hidden states.
```

Author: updated

  content-visibility: hidden;
}

/* Animation classes */

.show {
  animation: show 0.7s ease-in forwards;
}

.hide {
  animation: hide 0.7s ease-out forwards;
}

/* Animation keyframes */

@keyframes show {
  0% {
    content-visibility: hidden;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0);
  }

  100% {
    content-visibility: visible;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  }
}

@keyframes hide {
  0% {
    content-visibility: visible;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  }

  100% {
    content-visibility: hidden;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0);
  }
}
```

#### JavaScript

Finally, we use some JavaScript to apply the `.show` and `.hide` classes to the `<div>` as appropriate to apply the animations as it is toggled between shown and hidden.

```js
const divElem = document.querySelector("div");
const htmlElem = document.querySelector(":root");

htmlElem.addEventListener("click", showHide);
document.addEventListener("keydown", showHide);

function showHide() {
  if (divElem.classList[0] === "show") {
    divElem.classList.remove("show");
    divElem.classList.add("hide");
  } else {
    divElem.classList.remove("hide");
    divElem.classList.add("show");
  }
}
```

#### Result

The rendered result looks like this:

> {{ EmbedLiveSample("content-visibility animation example", "100%", "250") }}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{ EmbedLiveSample("content-visibility animation example", "100%", "350") }}
```

Author: 300 seems fine, so I've gone for that.

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Using hidden to manually manage visibility') }}

> ### content-visibility animation example

Reviewer 2: This example doesn't demonstrate `transition-behavior: allow-discrete;`. The same code works in Firefox where `allow-discrete` hasn't been implemented.

For example refer https://codepen.io/web-dot-dev/pen/poQMLrN.  If you run the code pen example in both Chrome and Firefox you'll notice the difference.
I think explicitly toggling `content-visiblity` and `display` properties in keyframes is a workaround and doesn't demonstrate new `allow-discrete` feature.

Author: Correct - you don't explicitly enable discrete animations for keyframe animations; that's only needed for transitions. I can't remember the exact reason, but I think it has something to do with avoiding unintended side effects if discrete property transitions were just enabled all the time. We probably ought to explain why this is needed on the `transition-behavior` reference page.

@josepharhar, have I got this right?

Reviewer: My guess (without looking at the spec, which is ever so useful) is that animations already handle discrete animations: if you put `40% {display: table-cell;}` it will change to table cell when it reaches the 40% mark, and stay that way as long as the animation is applied and a different value is not set.

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Using hidden to manually manage visibility') }}

> ### content-visibility animation example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Animating content-visibility
```
it's in examples, so we don't need to add that to the header

Author: Good call. I've changed this heading, and all the links/references to it.

  content-visibility: hidden;
}

/* Animation classes */

.show {
  animation: show 0.7s ease-in forwards;
}

.hide {
  animation: hide 0.7s ease-out forwards;
}

/* Animation keyframes */

@keyframes show {
  0% {
    content-visibility: hidden;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0);
  }

  100% {
    content-visibility: visible;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  }
}

@keyframes hide {
  0% {
    content-visibility: visible;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 1);
  }

  100% {
    content-visibility: hidden;
    color: rgb(0 0 0 / 0);
  }
}
```

#### JavaScript

Finally, we use JavaScript to apply the `.show` and `.hide` classes to the `<div>` as appropriate to apply the animations as it is toggled between shown and hidden states.

```js
const divElem = document.querySelector("div");
const htmlElem = document.querySelector(":root");

htmlElem.addEventListener("click", showHide);
document.addEventListener("keydown", showHide);

function showHide() {
  if (divElem.classList[0] === "show") {
    divElem.classList.remove("show");
    divElem.classList.add("hide");
  } else {
    divElem.classList.remove("hide");
    divElem.classList.add("show");
  }
}
```

#### Result

The rendered result looks like this:

> {{ EmbedLiveSample("content-visibility animation example", "100%", "300") }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ EmbedLiveSample("Animating content-visibility", "100%", "300") }}
```

Author: changed
